C# reference: Consolidated articles about checked and unchecked statements (#30738)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/statements/checked-and-unchecked.md

- [Explicit numeric conversions](../builtin-types/numeric-conversions.md#explicit-numeric-conversions) between integral types or from [`float` or `double`](../builtin-types/floating-point-numeric-types.md) to an integral type.

  > [!NOTE]
  > When you convert a `decimal` value to an integral type and the result is outside the range of the destination type, an <xref:System.OverflowException> is always thrown, regardless of the overflow-checking context.

- Beginning with C# 11, user-defined checked operators and conversions. For more information, see the [User-defined checked operators](../operators/arithmetic-operators.md#user-defined-checked-operators) section of the [Arithmetic operators](../operators/arithmetic-operators.md) article.

## Default overflow-checking context

If you don't specify the overflow-checking context, the value of the [**CheckForOverflowUnderflow**](../compiler-options/language.md#checkforoverflowunderflow) compiler option defines the default context for non-constant expressions. By default the value of that option is unset and integral-type arithmetic operations and conversions are executed in an **unchecked** context.

> Constant expressions are evaluated by default in a checked context and a compile-time error occurs in the case of an overflow. You can explicitly specify an unchecked context for a constant expression with the `unchecked` statement or operator.

Reviewer: IIRC, this behavior didn't change with the new checked and unchecked operators. Tagging @tannergooding to confirm. (If my memory is correct, this is fine as written)

Reviewer 2: Yep. C# has always evaluated `const T = expr` as if it were checked and want's you to explicitly `uncheck(expr)` in the case it would overflow.

ms.date: 08/24/2022
f1_keywords: 
  - "checked_CSharpKeyword"
  - "unchecked_CSharpKeyword"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "checked statement [C#]"
  - "unchecked statement [C#]"
  - "statements [C#], checked and unchecked"
  - "overflow checking [C#]"
---
# checked and unchecked statements (C# reference)

The `checked` and `unchecked` statements specify the overflow-checking context for integral-type arithmetic operations and conversions, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" interactive="try-dotnet-method" source="snippets/checked-and-unchecked/Program.cs" id="MainExample":::

When integer arithmetic overflow occurs, the overflow-checking context defines what happens as follows:

- In a checked context, a <xref:System.OverflowException?displayProperty=nameWithType> is thrown; if overflow happens in a constant expression, a compile-time error occurs.
- In an unchecked context, the operation result is truncated by discarding any high-order bits that don't fit in the destination type. For example, in the case of addition it wraps from the maximum value to the minimum value, as the preceding example shows.

> [!NOTE]

> > The behavior of user-defined operators and conversions in the case of the overflow of the corresponding result type can differ from the one described in the previous paragraph. In particular, [user-defined checked operators](../operators/arithmetic-operators.md#user-defined-checked-operators) might throw no exception in a checked context.

Reviewer: nit on sentence structure. Then, I'll :shipit:

```suggestion
> The behavior of user-defined operators and conversions in the case of the overflow of the corresponding result type can differ from the one described in the previous paragraph. In particular, [user-defined checked operators](../operators/arithmetic-operators.md#user-defined-checked-operators) might not throw an exception in a checked context.
```
